---
title: "Developing leadership through the MBA"
link: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/post.aspx?id=1601#post
author:
 name: Sarah Pereira
 bio: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/list.aspx?id=1408&blogID=3#post
date: 2024-11-28
image:
 src: "images/blogs/Banner_NWARYIEYAVFJMXU.jpg"
 alt: "The image shows a single red game pawn standing at the front center of the frame on a light wooden surface, facing a group of yellow game pawns arranged in several neat rows behind it against a solid bright yellow background."
description: "Full time MBA student Sarah Pereira did the MBA to help her hone her leadership skills and advance her career in the creative world of film-making."
layout: layout-anniversary-blog.liquid
---

Before pursuing my [MBA](https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/), I had worked in the creative world of filmmaking and production management. My career spanned various roles, including scriptwriting, directing, and production management for short films featured on streaming platforms and film festivals. Notably, I managed medium to large-scale productions, overseeing large crews and addressing complex logistical and financial challenges.

One of my significant roles was as an assistant production manager for a well-known Bollywood feature film where I was responsible for overseeing crew members, ensuring team coordination, and handling operational demands. These experiences sharpened my leadership and project management skills, highlighting my aptitude for strategic planning and organisational leadership. However, I recognised the need to formalise and deepen these skills to transition into higher managerial roles.

Pursuing an MBA was a strategic decision to bridge my creative expertise with robust managerial skills, preparing me to lead with vision and strategy in the highly competitive entertainment industry. 

My decision to join Strathclyde Business School was influenced by several factors. The university's reputation for excellence, particularly its triple accreditation from AACSB, AMBA, and EQUIS, stood out as a beacon of quality and global recognition. What particularly attracted me to Strathclyde was its comprehensive, all-inclusive syllabus that promised not only to teach the fundamentals of business management but also to delve deep into emerging trends and strategies. The curriculum's integration of practical learning opportunities, including live projects and simulations, was suited to my learning style and professional goals.

The Strathclyde MBA was a transformative experience for me. The programme's holistic approach to business education connected with my desire for a thorough learning experience. Each course was designed not just to impart knowledge, but to challenge our preconceptions about what business can and should do in the modern world. Personally, I found the leadership development portion to be beneficial. It went beyond standard teachings, encouraging us to focus on our leadership styles and how they affect our work and personal settings. This introspective approach helped me identify my own strengths and areas for improvement, making me a more adaptive and empathetic leader. Academically, the combination of quantitative and qualitative analysis offered in courses such as Financial Management and Challenges of Corporate Governance prepared me to approach business problems from several perspectives. I admired the rigour of the quantitative methodologies, which required a high level of precision and analytical thinking - skills that are essential in today's data-driven business environment. 

Socially, the curriculum was as enriching. The cohort's diversity meant that every group assignment and class discussion provided an opportunity to learn about diverse cultures and business practices. This exposure was invaluable in preparing me to perform in a global corporate world while understanding and respecting diverse viewpoints. Also, the programme’s engagement with real-world business scenarios, through case studies like Boeing and live projects with local companies like Arnold Clark, added a practical dimension to our academic knowledge. This not only helped us bridge the gap between theory and practice, but it also increased our employability by providing tangible examples of how we could utilise the MBA curriculum in real-world business situations.

Several elements of the Strathclyde MBA programme stood out due to their practical and innovative approach. The Applied Strategic Management module, particularly the scenario planning exercise for the World Bank, was a highlight. This involved real-world application, requiring us to consider various economic and political factors to strategise for South American regions. It allowed me to hone my strategic thinking skills and understand the complexities of international policymaking, equipping me with the tools to anticipate and strategise against possible future challenges. The Digital Transformation & Technological Innovation module was another standout. Through hands-on projects and case studies, we learned how to lead digital initiatives, from ideation to execution. The module covered critical topics such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, and cybersecurity, providing insights on how these technologies can drive business efficiency and innovation. Lastly, the elective on New Venture Creation provided essential tools and frameworks necessary to start, scale, and manage new ventures. This course went beyond basic entrepreneurship, delving into the intricacies of business model innovation, market analysis, and venture financing. Every component of the MBA programme emphasised practical skills and strategic foresight in a dynamic business environment.

The Macroeconomics masterclass by Benny Higgins was a highlight. His presentation on 'Why Leadership Matters' was intriguing, combining economic theory with leadership concepts. His insights into the macroeconomic forces influencing today's corporate leaders were eye-opening, and his real-world examples of leadership during times of economic turbulence were especially relevant. His ability to connect macroeconomic policies with everyday leadership requirements helped deepen our understanding of our role as future leaders in shaping the economy.

My year at Strathclyde was nothing short of extraordinary. A major highlight was the strong sense of unity and friendship that grew among classmates, which felt akin to a family. This tight-knit community formed a supportive environment, where professors and staff were not just educators but mentors and cheerleaders who genuinely cared about our personal and professional growth.

I would wholeheartedly recommend the Strathclyde MBA to prospective students. Its rigorous curriculum emphasises 'useful learning,' ensuring that graduates are well-versed in modern business practices and equipped to apply their knowledge effectively. The faculty's engagement with contemporary academic research and their connections with the business community provide an education that is both theoretical and immensely practical. The university's commitment to incorporating innovative business techniques and technologies into its curriculum guarantees that graduates are well-equipped to lead and develop their own businesses in today's fast-paced corporate world. 

Strathclyde's MBA programme doesn’t just educate, it transforms you into a visionary leader.