---
title: "MBA project: looking through the kaleidoscope"
link: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/post.aspx?id=1531#post
permalink: "{{ base_path }}blogs/mba-project/"
author:
 name: Ryan Joshua Mahindapala
 bio: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/list.aspx?id=1276&blogID=3#post
date: 2023-06-14
image:
 src: "images/blogs/Banner_IAAQBEDPNETCLPM.jpg"
 alt: "Image of a kaleidoscope"
description: "Ryan Mahindapala is doing his MBA in our Strathclyde Business School Singapore centre and here he shares his thoughts and advice on completing the project."
layout: layout-anniversary-blog.liquid
---

Looking through a kaleidoscope, you see mirrors, reflections and changing patterns with different colours in various shades. Despite its attractiveness, you cannot make much sense of anything that you see. You know for sure that there is beauty present before you but you ask yourself, how do I turn that beauty into something of value?    
  
Only when you venture on a journey through a kaleidoscope can you eventually come out the other end with clarity and insight that you can share with others. That was the feeling I had before I embarked on my MBA project. I looked through a kaleidoscope and saw many beautiful things but could not piece everything together to form a coherent picture in my mind that I could use as a basis for my project. As time went by, I maintained my faith in the process, ardently pursued my interests and stayed curious as to the possibilities of finding answers to questions that have been lingering in my mind for the longest time.    
  
For context, I opted to do my project on an individual basis; it was no easy feat and the lessons learnt from the whole experience are applicable to anyone, whether you are completing the project as an individual or in a group, about to begin or are in the midst of it and need some tips or inspiration.    
  
**Crisis**  
  
Proceeding to start on your project is a scary task. After many months of painstakingly attending lectures, seminars, doing the required readings, attending group discussion sessions and completing the coursework and examination requirements, the project phase may seem to be a blank canvas. You have ticked all the boxes but the last box requires new ways of thinking and a different style of working from what you are normally used to when completing the other modules throughout the MBA programme.  

Coming up with a research topic may be a challenge. If you are facing this problem, I assure you, you are not alone. I was in that same boat many months ago. The [Strathclyde MBA](https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/?utm_medium=paid_search&utm_source=google_search&utm_campaign=university_of_strathclyde_mba_business_23_paid_search_566629&utm_content=brand_business_school&utm_term=strathclyde_mba&gclid=EAIaIQobChMI656wqIe0_wIVhfjtCh3R7wvvEAAYASAAEgId__D_BwE&gclsrc=aw.ds) programme gives guidance on "how" to write a research proposal. Such guidance would include the overall structure of the research proposal, research methodologies, information that must be included in each chapter and the need for the identification of a “gap” in the body of knowledge within the field that your intended research is conducted in.    
  
Despite the guidance given by the University that answered my question of “how” to write a research proposal, I realised that I needed to find out on my own “what" to write about. Substantial guidance on choosing a topic to research on is scarce and without knowing “what" to write about, identifying the gap in a particular body of knowledge is literally impossible. That was where I faced a crisis.  
  
**Reflection**  
  
After completion of the Project Methodology module and project workbook, I had a clearer idea about how to draft a research proposal and what was needed to complete the project. However, I was still lost as to what should be my research topic. A few weeks went by and I was in desperate need of settling on a topic for the project. Those few weeks were the most contemplative and reflective few weeks that I experienced on the Strathclyde MBA. I experimented with various brainstorming techniques, spoke to past and present MBA students from Strathclyde Business School as well as other business schools, read up articles online on how to choose a topic for the MBA project and spoke to some of my past module lecturers in the hopes of gaining some guidance and inspiration that would help me come to a decision as to what I should focus my project on. The experience led me to discover that the best ways to get oneself thinking about what topic to focus on for the project are as follows:  
  
**1\. Draw on your past professional work experience**

Maybe you have been managing a team of seven employees prior to starting your MBA and you want to devise strategies to empower, inspire and enhance the productivity of your team to propel them to greater heights. It also could be the case that your professional experience lies in a specific area such as marketing, legal or finance but you want to explore the connections and intricacies of how different business functions within a company interact to produce synergies that could potentially propel the organisation forward. Alternatively, is there a managerial problem that you want to solve in the company that you work for or within the department that you currently work in? Leverage on the wealth of knowledge and experience that you have when deciding on your MBA project topic.    
  
The process becomes significantly easier when you tap into your lived experiences - do not think for one second that your past experience is irrelevant or unsuitable for the purpose of undertaking the project. Remember that what will make you stand out is your own novel experiences that shape who you are as a professional and the value add that you will bring to the organisations that you work for and/or the teams that you lead. For example, you may have in the course of your career, decided to do a one year overseas stint in a different field. Such experience could prove valuable for your MBA project. As expounded by Morten T. Hansen and Bolko von Oetinger in their Harvard Business Review article entitled, [“Introducing T-Shaped Managers: Knowledge Management’s Next Generation,](https://hbr.org/2001/03/introducing-t-shaped-managers-knowledge-managements-next-generation)” exposure to a different field will help you develop cross discipline expertise and mould you into a T-shaped manager. Demonstrating this unique quality in your project could potentially earn you added marks. Furthermore, having exposure to the business culture and practices of another country will widen the perspective of your project to encompass a broader range of pertinent issues on a regional and possibly, international level.    
  
**2\. Identify your favourite module(s) on the Strathclyde MBA programme**  
  
By now, you would have completed all or most of the modules on the course. It could be that you enjoyed the readings associated with some particular modules, you found the lecturer lively and engaging, or that the content of that module stimulated your mind and enabled you to think in ways you never thought possible. Whatever the reasons might be, pen down the names of all those modules. Leaving out modules that you really enjoyed but did not do so well in grades wise, would be a stumbling block to success. Even if you did not get the grade you desired for a particular module that intrigued you, make sure to include that module on your list as a potential topic area for your project. You can always revisit the readings and lectures for that module and use it as a base for developing a strong research proposal for your project. The possibilities are endless and it is up to you to make the best of what you have.  
  
**3\. Ask yourself where do you want your MBA to take you post-graduation**

There are many possibilities here and inter alia include: switching industry entirely, looking to pivot to a different role within the same industry, expanding your present role (national to regional; regional to international) or taking the entrepreneur route by starting your own business. If you have an idea of what your intentions are post-MBA, the project can be a great opportunity to put you in the right direction towards achieving your post MBA career goals. Gear your project towards achieving those goals and carefully plan your research proposal. When in doubt, ask your project supervisor for advice. To reach your goals, make a [mental movie](https://hbr.org/2014/03/to-reach-your-goals-make-a-mental-movie) to optimise your chances of success. Envision yourself attaining your post MBA goals. Visualising your future will help shape your thought process, motivate yourself and build a mental scaffolding that will act as the foundations for drafting a research proposal for your MBA project. Your post MBA plans and what move you wish to make in your career armed with an MBA qualification from Strathclyde Business School can act as the impetus for idea generation when it comes to choosing a topic for your project.  
  
**Confidence**   
  
Reflecting on the points mentioned above can prove to be a significant stepping stone in your journey towards completing the project. Note down all your thoughts when doing your own reflection. Be brutally honest and set a direction for yourself. We all have a set of priorities and criteria that we seek to follow. Stick to them closely and be determined to achieve your goals. The Strathclyde MBA is a catalyst that takes you to your eventual careers goals but you must have the courage to take the first steps forward on your own. The project may seem like a daunting task but, with sustained effort coupled with the guidance of your project supervisor, completing the project will prove to be an enjoyable task that you can look back on in the future and have fond memories of.    
  
As a student who has just completed the MBA project, I firmly believe that the project can be looked at as an initial hurdle that, once you overcome, will set a precedent to take on bigger challenges. The experiences gained from doing the project will serve as a stark reminder later on of the mental prowess, grit, determination and high potential for success that you are capable of no matter where your career takes you. On a concluding note, do take into account practical realities such as the time commitment required to complete the project to avoid falling short. Draw up SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-Bound) goals and ensure that you do not overstretch yourself to the point that the project becomes too much of a challenge. Always keep in mind that maintaining your mental health is just as important as successfully completing your project. I wish you the best for the project and all success in your careers!