---
title: "Scottish MBA Conference: a learning and networking experience"
link: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/post.aspx?id=1570#post
permalink: "{{ base_path }}blogs/a-learning-and-networking-experience/"
author:
 name: Anshita Nigam
 bio: https://www.sbs.strath.ac.uk/blogs/SBS/post.aspx?id=1570#post
date: 2024-03-07
image:
 src: "images/blogs/Banner_BSYLTLJIHAELWNL.jpg"
 alt: "A close-up photo of two wooden jigsaw puzzle pieces standing upright on a smooth surface. The pieces are positioned side by side, slightly apart, with their interlocking tabs and slots clearly visible. Warm sunlight streams in from the right side of the image, casting soft shadows and creating a golden glow on the puzzle pieces and the table. The background is blurred, showing large windows and bright light, giving the scene a calm and inviting atmosphere. The composition suggests themes of connection, partnership, or problem-solving."
description: Strathclyde Business School hosted the Scottish MBA Conference with students from Strathclyde, Glasgow and Edinburgh business schools taking part. Here, Anshita Nigam gives her insight into the day. "
layout: layout-anniversary-blog.liquid
---

Recently, I had the privilege of attending the Scottish MBA Conference, an annual gathering that brought together a confluence of intellect and ambition from three esteemed business schools in Scotland - the University of Strathclyde, the University of Edinburgh and the University of Glasgow - with employers, alumni and industry experts. As someone who loves learning about business and believes in continuous learning, I was excited to dive into the discussions and ideas this event offered.

The conference kicked off with a vibrant atmosphere, full of excitement and curiosity. We had attendees from all three universities, showing right from the beginning how diverse the perspectives were.

Clyde Marwick's opening keynote on "responsible leadership" was truly enlightening, offering valuable insights into industry trends and highlighting how vast leadership is, extending beyond mere managerial roles to encompass a much broader scope. The conference featured four panel sessions in the morning covering topics such as Fintech, Commercial, and Operations, followed by sessions on Consultancy and Sustainability after lunch. The event concluded with a keynote address by Rupa Mooker and Jane Wilson.

The day was intense with a large crowd, numerous workshops, and plenty of learning opportunities. I chose to attend sessions on fintech in the morning and consulting in the afternoon which were truly informative, providing invaluable insights into their respective industries.

I took plenty of notes and brainstormed ideas, resulting in a list of potential approaches I could explore in the future. Panel discussions featured entrepreneurs and business leaders who shared their experiences of integrating sustainability into their organisations emphasizing the importance of aligning business objectives with environmental and social responsibility. Their stories inspired attendees to rethink traditional business models and explore innovative approaches to creating value for both shareholders and society.

During my MBA studies, I've encountered a wide range of subjects including economics, marketing and strategy. Each topic has added to my overall understanding of business and has equipped me to confidently address complex challenges with flexibility and assurance. The conference reinforced the importance of continuous learning. Beyond the formal sessions, the Scottish MBA Conference provided ample opportunities for networking and collaboration fostering connections between students, panelists, and among themselves. I also had the opportunity to conduct the interviews with panellists.

Attending the conference made me realise how learning and networking together can be really transformative. It brought together everything I've learned in my MBA so far. As I navigate through my MBA programme, I am constantly seeking out opportunities to broaden my horizons, whether through attending conferences, participating in workshops, or engaging with industry experts. As I keep going with my course, I'm eager about what's next. With all I've learned, a strong network, and a drive to always get better, I feel ready to handle the challenges of business and make a real difference in my area.