---
title: "Karen Chukwu"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-f.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2024
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "Glaswegians are amazing people, and with Strathclyde in the city centre, you are at the heart of Glasgow's activities"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

 I had some unfinished business with Strathclyde, as it was the University I wanted to attend for my LLM, but couldn't. 

When it was time to go for my MBA, I looked back at Strathclyde, saw that it's a triple-accredited business school, and that sealed it for me.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights?_

It was a rigorous programme, but the support I received from the Strathclyde Business School team made it worth it. I miss the 9:30 classes and getting together with the rest of the cohort at the MBA common room.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_

Glaswegians are amazing people, and with Strathclyde in the city centre, you are at the heart of Glasgow's activities and can have a good mix between university studies and extracurricular activities. If you are into sports, working out or love an active social life, then you would love the Strathclyde gym and student union.

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University?_

The people, the lecturers, and the all-around support. Every student needs the kind of support Strathclyde provides if they are looking to excel at uni and in their career.

