---
title: "Diego Fonseca"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-m.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2023
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "I wanted all the knowledge I acquired to be useful, applicable, and theoretical-practical. Strathclyde Business School gave me all of that"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde_?

I always wanted to do an MBA that would allow me to apply the knowledge I learned to my day-to-day work. “A place of useful learning” was key to achieving that. I wanted all the knowledge I acquired to be useful, applicable, and theoretical-practical. Strathclyde Business School gave me all of that.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights_?

Just as “People make Glasgow,” people make Strathclyde. The first thing that comes to mind is the human quality of my colleagues, but above all, the people on the MBA team who build the program daily. I shared experiences with many colleagues from cultures very different from my own, which not only broadened my view of the world, but also my way of working and developing business. I shared experiences with professors and global practitioners who helped me understand and justify the content of the MBA programme. I would also like to highlight the university's resources and its library, both physical and digital

_What skills or insights have been most impactful on your career since graduating_?

In my opinion, perhaps the most general skill I gained was that of overall academic rigour. The way of researching, analyzing, and applying knowledge at this academic level is something I continue to use. Along these lines, learning about companies and businesses in the United Kingdom helps to gain a global vision of business development. The exchange with the Toulouse Business School was a major contribution to this goal. Finally, the cutting-edge knowledge in different areas of business, as well as the structure of the courses, allowed me to delve deeper into what I considered necessary for my professional development. Special mention should be made of the global practitioners, who are key facilitators in bringing the classroom to the workplace.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_

I've always said it... do everything! University is a platform rich in experiences and, in my opinion, it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to try everything, from bagpipe lessons to delving deeper into specific areas of knowledge. Take advantage of networking events and get to know your professors and GP. Share with every member of the university and soak up Scottish culture. When you finish and return to your home countries, you will miss it!

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University_?

I really enjoyed the people of Glasgow and the university, but if I had to choose one unique feature of Strathclyde, it would be its sports centre. Personally, I enjoyed it immensely. Its facilities, teachers, experiences and sports selections are testament to the academic excellence that Strathclyde strives for. It was a pleasure to be part of the university squash team and to represent it whenever I had the opportunity. Without a doubt, I bleed brown.

_Any further comments?_

Long live the Strathclyde Business School MBA. You can count on my full support for the next 60 years!
