---
title: "Mark Evans"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-m.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2024
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "As a late learner at 56 you’re never too old to advance your knowledge and skills"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

Strathclyde Business School is well established, with a much better reputation and MBA national ranking than others in my area.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights?_

For me, the whole environment, the support staff and interaction with the lecturers. Being part of a proud community focused on useful learning and living the whole journey with a mixed cultural cohort. The personal highlight and stand out moment was, winning best capstone project with my (now) very good friend Rahul.

_What skills or insights have been most impactful on your career since graduating?_

The most important skill for me, is being able to discuss business solutions with clients, using a wide range of frameworks and tools they can understand. Before my MBA I would typically have to explain how I arrived at business decisions using anecdotal storytelling,

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_

Do it, what you put in you will definitely get out.

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University?_

The support staff, without them it would have been a lonelier experience. The global practitioners added real-world context to the academic teachings.

_Any further comments_?

As a late learner at 56 you’re never too old to advance your knowledge and skills. Much of my 30 years success in venture creation was based on gut feeling and learning deep in the trenches. My MBA has brought clarity to this journey in a way that I can now use to guide others.

