---
title: "Cynthia Brett"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-f.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2019
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "The cultural awareness that I gained has benefited my career when working with teams from other countries, particularly around communication challenges"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

I was seeking a career change and to learn more about all areas of business. My decision to choose Strathclyde was a mix of things: reputation, located in a decent size city with networking opportunities, but without the high cost of living associated London or Dublin.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights?_

The coursework was challenging and engaging, but more than anything the cultural learning and memories I made with my fellow students have had the most lasting impact. I enjoyed the pot lucks, dinners at friends' homes where they shared dishes from their countries, and the conversations that we had about misconceptions about cultures and countries.

_How has the MBA impacted on you since graduation (career or personal benefits_)?

The cultural awareness that I gained has benefited my career when working with teams from other countries, particularly around communication challenges. Also the ability to switch lenses of how strategies and decisions may impact other areas of the business helps me contextualise top-down decisions as well as weighing up how decisions in my team will impact other functions.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_ 

Have some idea of what you hope to gain at the other end and lean into that. Also, don't take for granted your relationships with fellow students. As strong as you may be in many courses, most of us can't be good at everything. You may find yourself in need of support at some point, so bear that in mind when navigating those relationships.

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University?_

It sounds cliche, but the emphasis on "useful learning." The exposure to real business problems and opportunities to participate in workshops and projects with business owners and leadership gave me a lot of confidence when re-entering the workforce.