---
title: "Alastair Bell"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-m.png"
route: Parttime; Graduated 2000
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-parttime/
quote: "There’s no doubt that my MBA helped me into a general management role. If nothing else, it sends a message of a commitment to lifelong learning"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

I decided to do an MBA to widen my formal business training which had previously mainly been finance. Strathclyde was my first choice because I had done my first degree, Technology and Business Studies, there and had found the teaching good. 

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights?_

I have strong memories of doing team coursework, and of the friends I made. The highlight was a session on how NOT to let a costing structure define your pricing strategy. I took that into the office the next day, sat down with the finance director, and agreed we would run some more costings. This explained why one particular product range seemed to be completely uncompetitive and yet was competitive and profitable when costed a different way.

_How has the MBA impacted on you since graduation (career or personal benefits)?_

There’s no doubt that my MBA helped me into a general management role. If nothing else, it sends a message of a commitment to lifelong learning. It also gave a boost to my confidence in the workplace and some useful tools to use.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_

I would give 2 bits of advice. Firstly, do an MBA part time or full time (and not distance learning) if at all possible. The camaraderie, teamwork and support are vital components of getting the most out of it. Secondly, if job pressures (or personal circumstances) means you have to put the MBA on hold for a year, don’t hesitate. A job change and becoming a father for a second time, meant It took me 5 years to complete, but it was just as rewarding to finish in that extended timetable.