---
title: "Akash Singh"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-m.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2023
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "Strathclyde offers a world-class learning environment with excellent infrastructure and support"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

My key reasons for pursuing an international MBA were to develop a global mindset and to make a career transition. The Strathclyde MBA provided an excellent launchpad for achieving both of these goals.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme? Any personal highlights?_

I found that the structure of the Strathclyde MBA assignments offered a valuable opportunity to immerse myself in industries and topics closely aligned with my career goals. In addition, taking part in the global PE competition at the University of Oxford and the Global MBA Fest at HEC Paris further strengthened my international outlook and helped me build a lifelong network.

_How has the MBA impacted on you since graduation (career or personal benefits)?_

Exploring subjects such as strategy in practice, digital transformation and sustainable leadership has shaped my thinking, and I continue to apply these learnings in my role today. I also strengthened some of the most underrated skills such as communication, market research and presentation, which have been invaluable in helping me excel in my current role.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_

An MBA is a highly individual journey, so I’d encourage aspiring candidates to think carefully about the path they want to pursue after graduating and shape their MBA experience around that vision. I’d also recommend investing in meaningful connections with classmates and learning from their perspectives and experiences, while keeping your own biases in check.

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University?_

Strathclyde offers a world-class learning environment with excellent infrastructure and support. It provides practical tools, robust business frameworks and a high-quality classroom experience that you can immediately apply in your post-MBA career, regardless of your industry or role.