---
title: "Rajkiran Kotian"
image:
 src: "images/testimonials/anon-f.png"
route: Fulltime; Graduated 2023
link: https://www.strath.ac.uk/courses/postgraduatetaught/mba/mba-fulltime/
quote: "The Strathclyde MBA was transformative for me. It sharpened my strategic thinking, strengthened my leadership skills"
layout: layout-anniversary-profile.liquid
---

_What led you to choose to do an MBA and why Strathclyde?_

I decided to pursue an MBA to strengthen my strategic and leadership capabilities, gain a holistic understanding of business, and position myself for senior roles. I also wanted to expand my network and learn from diverse perspectives.

_What are your thoughts/memories of the programme?_

_Any personal highlights?_ I enjoyed all the strategic courses EIBE, Making Strategy & SAE in the programme. It gave me a strategic lens to view business and sharpened my leadership skills. A personal highlight was the consultancy project, where we worked on a real client challenge. It was intense but incredibly rewarding. Another standout was the learning from peers across industries and cultures was invaluable.

_How has the MBA impacted on you since graduation (career or personal benefits)?_

The most impactful skills have been strategic thinking, problem solving using a structure and people management. Equally important were the leadership insights, which changed how I approach team dynamics and organisational change. The MBA also taught me to make decisions confidently in uncertain environments, which is critical in today’s fast-moving business landscape.

_What would you say to someone considering doing the Strathclyde MBA/what advice would you give to someone about to start?_ 

Go in with clear goals and an open mind. The MBA is a big commitment, but the experience is transformative if you engage fully. Use the opportunity to build relationships, apply what you learn to real-world challenges, and embrace the leadership development aspects, they’ll stay with you long after graduation.

_What was the best thing about Strathclyde University?_

The Strathclyde MBA was transformative for me. It sharpened my strategic thinking, strengthened my leadership skills, and gave me the confidence to make decisions in complex environments. The best part was the diversity of the cohort—learning from peers across industries and cultures enriched every discussion. My advice to anyone considering the program: go in with clear goals, engage fully, and embrace the leadership development journey - it will stay with you long after graduation.

_Any further comments?_

Invest yourself fully in expanding your knowledge and make the most of the diverse perspectives your peers bring. Focus on collaboration rather than competition, and keep an open mind to feedback. Take time to reflect on the insights from each session - this is where real growth happens. Good luck!